  Managing Appliance Launches in Infrastructure Clouds


      Authors:

John Bresnahan (Argonne National Laboratory), Tim Freeman (University of
Chicago), David Labissoniere (University of Chicago), Kate Keahey
(Argonne National Laboratory)


      Time:

2:45pm - 5:15pm


      Abstract:

Infrastructure cloud computing introduces a significant paradigm shift
that has the potential to revolutionize how scientific computing is
done. However, while it is actively adopted by a number of scientific
communities, it is still lacking a well-developed and mature ecosystem
that will allow the scientific community to better leverage the
capabilities it offers. This paper introduces a specific addition to the
infrastructure cloud ecosystem: the cloudinit.d program, a tool for
launching, configuring, monitoring, and repairing a set of
interdependent virtual machines in an Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)
cloud or over a set of IaaS clouds. The cloudinit.d program was
developed in the context of the Ocean Observatory Initiative (OOI)
project to help it launch and maintain complex virtual platforms
provisioned on-demand on top of infrastructure clouds. Like the UNIX
init.d program, cloudinit.d can launch specified groups of services, and
the VMs in which they run, at different run levels representing
dependencies of the launched VMs. Once launched, cloudinit.d monitors
the health of each running service to ensure that the overall
application is operating properly. If a problem is detected in a service
cloudinit.d will restart only that service, and any other service that
failed which depended upon it.